---
title: Custom Prelude
date: 2022-02-02
---

## Status

Accepted - [ADP-1010](https://input-output.atlassian.net/browse/ADP-1010)

## Context

We have many modules and functions that are imported in almost every package of the codebase.

The large number of `import` statements makes refactoring harder.

It's possible to reduce this duplication and inconvenience by setting up a custom prelude for the cardano-wallet project.

## Decision

### Base library

There are many interesting options for custom Preludes.

However for now, we shall be boring and continue to use `Prelude` from `base` (_the_ Prelude) as the starting point for our own `Prelude`.

Therefore we don't risk introducing defects into the codebase.

We can always revisit the custom Prelude question in the future.

### `NoImplicitPrelude`

We shall continue to enable the `NoImplicitPrelude` GHC extension by default.

Explicitly showing the prelude module will prevent new developers and
others who read the code from getting confused.

### Cabal Mixins

It's possible to rebind the `Prelude` module name to module in another package like this:

```
mixins:   base hiding (Prelude)
        , some-custom-prelude (SomeCustomPrelude as Prelude)
        , some-custom-prelude
```

However, this may also cause confusion, and is not necessary if using `NoImplicitPrelude`.

## Package/Module Layout

### Package `cardano-wallet-base`

The module `Cardano.Wallet.Base` is a `Prelude` without dependencies
on any `cardano-wallet` packages. This affords maximum sharing of
Prelude code, without introducing circular dependencies.

### Package `cardano-wallet-core`

The module `Cardano.Wallet.Prelude` is the `Prelude` which most wallet
code will import. It adds common Wallet types on top of
`Cardano.Wallet.Base`.

## Consequences

1. Any open PR will develop multiple merge conflicts once this change has merged.
2. This change makes our codebase less resemble "standard" Haskell, adding to its learning curve.
3. The Cabal package layout must necessarily change.
4. Any package which imports `Cardano.Wallet.Base` or `Cardano.Wallet.Prelude` will inherit its package dependencies.
